## WORKING WITH DYNAMIC CONTENT & ADDING TEMPLATING ENGINES

---

### **SHARING DATA ACROSS REQUESTS & USERS**

- You may take an input and create a variable that keeps it. But this will end with not be able to hiding this data from any user. Everytime the page reloads or even opens in completely different search engine, it will be kept in that variable which is sometimes useful but sometimes an undesirable situation. An example:
  At the page shares information:

  ```
    const array = [];
    exports.shared = array;
    //when the desired action happens
    shared.push()
  ```

  At the page takes information:

  ```
    const something = xpageData.shared;
  ```

---

### **INSTALLING AND IMPLEMENTING PUG**

- Install and save pug on command prompt or terminal.

  ```
    npm install --save pug
  ```

- Add

  ```
    app.set("view engine", "pug");
    //the default value of "views" string or array is: process.cwd() + '/views'
    app.set("views", "views");
  ```

  to your app.js file.

- Create the .pug file (you may use html:5 shortcut in vscode) and code it like in the sample here.
- In js file, change the res.sendFile method with res.render("name of js file").

---

### **ADDING DYNAMIC CONTENT**

- Just use _#{}_ to call a variable in a pug page.

- You may iterate through the elements of array or you may add if else structures for displaying preferences into pug page.

---

### **CREATING LAYOUTS**

- To avoid code repetation, you may use layouts that includes common parts of page's designs. To do that, create a new pug file as main layout, and use "block" keyword for the parts that will be completed in specialized files. In that files use "extends" keyword to import layout file, and "block" again to set what blocks will contain.

- By adding a new property to the object which is second parameter of the render method that we use in js files, we can set the class dynamicly in pug file.

  ```
    class=(ternary operation with keyword of path)
  ```

---

### **WORKING WITH HANDLEBARS**

- Import the express-handlebars and set it as templating engine of your project.

  ```
    const expressHbs = require("express-handlebars");

    app.engine("hbs", expressHbs()); //you can use any name you want
    app.set("view engine", "hbs");   //name should match above
    //the default value of "views" string or array is: process.cwd() + '/views'
    app.set("views", "views");
  ```

- Note that file extension must be also same as the name you determined.

---

### **WORKING WITH EJS**
